# flights_delay
Task: To propose a variant of the predictive model for predicting the delay of an airline flight on the horizon of 24 hours; it is assumed that the model will run once a day and predict the feasibility of schedules for the next day. What I would like to receive for evaluation: 1. Python code that reflects the progress of data processing and model building. 2. A short report in any format containing: 路 approach to building a model 路 description of the proposed model 路 assessment of prediction accuracy 路 brief conclusions and ideas for further development of the model

Brief report:

Flight times in the original dataset are given in local time, so it was necessary to bring the time to a single UTC standard. The target variable was obtained as the difference between the actual arrival time and the scheduled arrival time. The choice of arrival delay is explained by the fact that this delay is on average less than the departure delay, and, ultimately, it is responsible for the flight delay. New quantitative features were also added to get rid of the categorical ones, but during the experiments, the best results were on the entire feature space. To assess the accuracy of predictions, the R2 metric was chosen, since it allows us to evaluate the relative quality of the model, as well as RMSE, to see how many minutes we are wrong in the prediction. LinearRegression, LassoCV, RidgeCV, RandomForestRegressor and GradientBoostingRegressor from the sk-learn library, XGBoostRegressor and CatBoostRegressor were used to select the best model. The best result was obtained on XGBoostRegressor, although with a different split into train and test, CatBoostRegressor won. But still, the result of the prediction is unsatisfactory. It seems to me that third-party information is needed, for example, a weather forecast. Or more information about air assets.
